Title: Transportation Showcase 2012
slug: showcase/2012-nov

The MIT Transportation Showcase aims to bring together the transportation community for this innovative combined networking and research event. For the past two events, the event has featured over 60 research projects from every transportation related department and group at MIT. The event has also welcomed over 19 companies related to the industry.


## Companies: CAREERS connecting students and employers


### Recruitment Booths

Transportation related companies and organizations are invited to set up recruitment booths to meet job seeking students and advertise upcoming employment opportunities.


### Resume Pool

Attending potential employers will have access to a resume pool enabling access to MIT's transportation expertise

Although attendance to the Showcase is free, sponsorship will allow organizations unique access to transportation students at MIT and will help to make this event a sustainable, annual opportunity for your organization to form
connections at MIT.


### Sponsorship Opportunities

- **Bronze ($500)**
    - Small Booth
    - Company logo included on all advertisements
- **Silver ($1000)**
    - Medium booth
    - Large logo on all advertisement
    - Early bird access to the resume pool
- **Gold ($2500)**
    - Large booth in a central location
    - Banner space
    - Prominent placement of logo on all ads
    - Early bird access to the resume pool
    - Organized parking for two vehicles


## Students & Faculty: RESEARCH enabling collaboration

Every MIT-affiliated is welcomed to present cutting edge transportation research, giving attendees a unique insight into the pertinent technical, economic, and political dimensions of today and tomorrow's transportation issues. Over 60 academic projects have been presented in the past and have been divided into three general categories:

- Finance and Policy
- Energy and the Environment
- Intelligent Transportation Systems

We look forward to having an exciting event this year with a diverse set of posters and prototypes representing research projects across the institute. If you are interested in participating in out next Showcase, please submit your abstract online.


## Venue: Join us at the MIT Museum!

As it has been our tradition for the past events, the 2012 MIT Transportation  Showcase will be held at the [MIT Museum](http://web.mit.edu/museum). The Museum offers an ideal environment which facilitates conversation between attendees. Appetizers and drinks are served as students, faculty, alumni, and employers circulate. The MIT Museum engages the wider community with MIT's science, technology, and other areas of scholarship in ways that will best serve the nation and world in the 21st century.


### Directions

265 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge, MA 02139

The MIT Museum is accessible via public transportation, and is within three miles of two major interstate highways.


#### By Subway

Take the *Red Line* to either Central Square Station (a 10 minute walk to the Museum) or Kendall Square/MIT Station (a 15 minute walk to the Museum).

From *Central Square*: Walk down Mass. Ave. toward Boston and the main MIT campus. The Museum is on the left at the corner of Front St.

From *Kendall/MIT Station* at the east end of campus: Walk down Main St., away from Boston, to Windsor St., turn left, take the second right onto Front St., and continue to the museum entrance.


#### By Bus

The *#1 (Dudley/Harvard Square)* bus travels along Mass. Ave. between Boston and Harvard Square.

From Harvard Square, get off at either Sidney St. or Albany St.

From Boston, get off at Front St.


#### By Car

If you are taking I-95, I-93, I-90/Mass Turnpike, please visit the [MIT Museum website](http://web.mit.edu/museum/visit/directions.html) for more directions.


#### Parking

There are several parking options around de Museum. After 5PM, parking is free at the MIT Visitor Lot, on the corner of Vassar Street and Massachusetts Avenue.
